In this video,
we're going to use IntelliJ's support for modules
to create a module, build, and run it.
In addition, we'll repeat the steps
manually using a terminal session from the IDE,
because you may run across questions
on the exam about command line options.
So you need to create a new project in IntelliJ
which I've done, and name it ModuleTesting.
Then we need to do something a little bit different,
we need to come up here and right click
on the project name, select new,
module, and I'm going to click on next,
and I'm going to call this one MyFirstModule.
Accepting all the defaults, clicking finish.
So note now that we've got this MyFirstModule here,
and it's got its own source folder as well,
and that's actually a path that's available in our project.
So if you go and have a look at that,
open in terminal, you can see
we've got ModuleTesting which was the root folder,
IntelliJ's created a subfolder, MyFirstModule,
and we've got this source folder as well.
All right, we'll exit.
All right, so I'll just close down terminal for now.
Now that I've done that,
we want to create our first class.
Now we also want to make sure
we're in our MyFirstModule, and source folder,
and right click that source folder
and not the one outside that's created by default.
That's not part of the module.
Right click on this one, new,
java class, and we'll call this one
modular being the package, dot HelloWorld.
Paste in some basic code,
very simple as you can see,
hello new modular world.
Let's run this in the usual way.
Okay, so I can see the programme ran,
and although we've set up everything to be modular,
or think we have, we're not actually yet
running the code as a module.
You'll notice that if I scroll over here
and look at the arguments to java.exe,
we've got this -classpath showing.
The fact that IntelliJ's still using classpath
in the arguments is our clue
that we're not yet executing our code as a module.
There's actually one more step that we need to take
to make this a working module.
So what we need to do is come back up to the module,
and up to the source folder within the MyFirstModule,
right click that, select new,
and select module-info.java.
You can see that we've got a new java source file
that's been generated for us
and look's pretty basic.
We'll be discussing module-info.java in more detail
in future videos in this section of the course,
but for now just know that the module name
follows the module keyword,
and is the name of the module we created earlier
in this video, and the module body is required
even though it's just a set of curly braces
as shown below.
All right, now that we've done that,
if we go back and rerun this again,
we still get the same output,
but if we scroll over again
and look at the arguments to java.exe again,
notice how we've got some different
arguments there now.
Specifically, we're no longer using the -classpath option,
this has been replaced with -p,
which alternatively can be replaced with
the more meaningful --module-path,
and also -m has been added as well,
and that's the alias for --module.
The point here is that we're now executing
our code as a module.
All right, so let's go and have a look
a little bit more at the command line.
What I'm going to do is come up to our project name up here,
right click that, open in terminal.
And what we want to do here is manually execute
the code from the command line ourselves
with different options.
Now this example, I'm going to be using
-module-path instead of -p,
but keep in mind that these are interchangeable options
in the java command,
and we're also specifying, or will be specifying
the out/production directory.
This is the directory created by IntelliJ.
That's where the compiled classes are
in the MyFirstModule exploded directory.
Now modules can be exploded directories or JAR files,
either of which must have
a module-info.class in the root folder,
and you can see for our MyFirstModule module,
we've got that module-info.class there.
All right, so let's try typing a command now.
So I'm gonna type java --module-path out\production\
m, which is our alias for module, MyFirstModule.
So MyFirstModule, typed the same way
as we created it, with capital letters
for My, First, and Module, and press enter.
Now you'll notice that that didn't work,
and we've got a message from the JVM,
module MyFirstmodule doesn't have a ModuleMainClass
attribute, use -m <module>/<main-class>.
So basically the issue here is
that we didn't specify the class we wanna run.
So what we're gonna do,
I'm just gonna press up arrow there,
we need to put a slash, forward slash,
the package name is modular, class name HelloWorld,
press enter, and success.
We've written our first module and executed
it both from IntelliJ and from the command line.
Right, so let's now create our first executable
modular JAR from the command line.
It's not actually different from creating
an old fashioned executable JAR file.
We'll create this JAR file in the module
testing project root folder.
And we're gonna create a new JAR file
MyFirstModule.jar and specify the main method
defined in the class which you've just seen,
modular.helloworld, and packaging any files or folders
we find in the out/production/MyFirstModule directory,
which again you can see in the project pane there.
So the command to do that would be jar
-create --file, and the file is gonna be called
MyFirstModule.jar, space, you need to now
specify the main class, so --main-class
and that's our modular.HelloWorld.
Then we need to specify the directory
that we want to include the files for,
so -C out\production\MyFirstModule,
so I'm just following the tree you can see
in the project pane,
backslash space and then a dot,
so we're including everything, press enter,
and that's been created.
And if I go back and click into the project pane,
notice we've now got MyFirstModule.jar
that has appeared, so that's the file we've just created
with that command line.
What actually makes this a modular jar file
is the class file in the root of the jar file,
the module-info.class.
And again we can see that in the
out\production\MyFirstModule directory
that's now getting included in the jar file.
Now you can examine the jar file as follows,
so we'll do a jar -f MyFirstModule.jar --list.
All right, so you can see the files there
and obviously the important one
module-info.class is there,
and that again is what makes this
a modular jar file.
Now, we can use the jar file and the described module,
or alternatively -d to describe the modular jar
specification and not its contents.
We'll actually be discussing the
specifications, module jar specifications
in upcoming videos in more detail.
For now though, let's have a look at how to do that.
So, jar -f MyFirstModule.jar -d, in this case,
because again we're trying to describe the module.
And you can see the output on screen there.
All right, and alternatively,
we can also type java --modular-path dot
and space dash dash, I'm not actually saying space
all the time, I'll show you now that when you typing
outputs you need to specify space,
describe-module and then MyFirstModule.
Now, note here that using the java command here,
we need to specify the module path,
the --module-path or alternatively, -p for java,
even if our module is in the current directory.
So we do that, and I'm not sure why that didn't work.
We'll just exit and try a refresh there
and see whether that works.
Well that was weird,
I'm not sure what was going on there
if that was a memory issue or something,
but in any event that's working now.
So that's the way to do this using the java executable.
And note there that you do need to specify
the module path using --module-path or
alternatively -p, even if the module's
in the current directory.
All right, then the alternative there,
java -p . MyFirstModule, and I need to put
the -d there in front of that.
Okay, we get the same output as previous.
All right, so what about executing the code
in the jar file?
Well we do that by telling the java
virtual machine to look for
a module jar file or exploded module directory
using the --module-path or -p directory
then pass the module name using the -m
or --module option.
So it's java --module-path dot, then --module
MyFirstModule, and you can see the execution
output showing on the screen.
All right, so let's look at using jdeps
which launches the java class dependency analyzer
which we've discussed earlier in this section.
Now, you can use jdeps with no options
using just the jar file, so jdeps MyFirstModule.jar,
and you can see the output there on screen.
All right, so let's end the video here
because it's getting quite long.
In the next one, I want to bring up
some slides and show you some command line options
and then we'll continue on and we'll create
a second module and we'll look at how to
interact and actually get the second module
working with the first one.
See you in the next video.